---
layout: page
title: Quick Start Guide
permalink: /quickstart/
group: "navigation"
---
Contents
-----------
{:.no_toc}

* toc here
{:toc}

Installation
-------------

Before to start, please note that Microblx runs only on GNU/Linux systems.

The following guide has been tested on Ubuntu 12.04 and 14.04.

### Requirements

First, check if your computer meets all the requirements

* C/C++ compilers: [gcc](https://gcc.gnu.org/), [clang](http://clang.llvm.org/)
* [luajit](http://luajit.org/install.html)
* [git](http://git-scm.com/) (only for developers)

On Ubuntu system, solve this by typing in a terminal

```
$ sudo apt-get install clang gcc make git libluajit-5.1-dev luajit
```

Further details about the requirements can be found [here]().

***

### Get the code

Fetch the sources by cloning the official repository (suggested choice for developers):


    $ git clone https://github.com/UbxTeam/microblx
  

If you are an user, you might prefer to download a tarbal and unpack it by
```
```

### Configure and Compile

Create a source script (change the path if necessary, $HOME=/home/username):

    $ echo 'export UBX_ROOT=$HOME/microblx
    $ source $UBX_ROOT/env.sh
    $ export UBX_MODULES=$HOME/microblx/install/lib/ubx
    $ export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$HOME/microblx/install/share/ubx/cmake' > sourceme.sh


Then source the

As suggested step (but not mandatory), you may want to add the previous script

Run your first demo code
-------------

To check if everything has been compiled properly, you can try a basic example. From the Microblx root folder

    $ cd tools
    $ ./ubx_launch -c ../examples/trig_rnd_hexdump.usc -webif

Surf to <http://localhost:8888> to view the web-interface and initiate/start the blocks.

The default web page is ubx_node which gives an overview of the created blocks and the state of these blocks.

The desired functions are taken care by the computational blocks.
In this example, random hexadecimal values are generated once computational block rnd is triggered by ptrig1.

A computational block needs to be initialized before we can start it. 
In the initialization phase, the computation block obtains configuration parameters.

The user may start the block by clicking on the start button, running the block at specific triggering policy or the user may run the block in step mode by clicking on the steponce button.

####Node graph
The node graph is generated by microblx, which provides graphical representation of the current program.

Moreover, it provides status of every block and data buffer and the connections between these blocks.

* Computation block (c_block): Rectangle
* Interaction block (i_block): Dashed round-cornered rectangle
* (s_block?)
* Dataflow path: black arrow
* Triggering path: orange dashed arrow
* Running block: Green
* Stopped block: Red
* Not/Pre initialized block: Blue

The *webif1* block represents the web interface.

The *ptrig1* block will trigger rnd and logger1 in this order.

The *rnd* computation block has an output port rnd which is connected to the *hexdump* interaction block which prints the value of this output port to stdout.
The output port is also connected to *i_block* fifo1, a buffer with an output port *r2*.

What's next ?
-------------

- [Tutorials](../Tutorials/)
- [Documentation](../Documentation/)